In this video out splaying the IP sagt VPN feature provided by the NSX sketch We'll take a look at what
an IP says VPN is what use cases we should utilize this for and what the IP addressing scheme looks
like.
So here's an example of an IP set VPN tunnel that's been established using two NSX hedges.
We have V.M. one nvm two that are both on different IP networks known as V.M. one is on the 10.
One top one address range whereas VM 2 isn't $192 168.
One.
And we want to be able to pass traffic between these two networks over a secure encrypted connection.
Now in this case both of our locations will have an edge gateway and both of those gateways will be
configured as an IP endpoint and that each location will configure the local networks and the remote
networks.
So for example at our first location local site we're going to configure virtual machine one's network
as a local network.
So here we see at the local site V.M. one is on the 10 that 1.1 11 network.
That'll be our local network at this location at the remote site will configure the local network as
1 9 2.1 6:08 that 1.0 and we'll also configure each NSX edge to specify what networks are reachable
via this IP sakte VPN.
So in the NSX outage at the local site we'll configure it so that we know if we need to reach the 1
9 2 1 6 8 dot 1.0 network it's accessible over this VPN tunnel and we'll do the opposite.
Here at the remote site will configure the NSX edge with remote networks specifically the 10.0 one dot
1.0 network that's reachable over the VPN.
So now the edge at each site will know which traffic should stay local and which traffic should get
pushed over the VPN.
IP Seck in the NSX sedge has a few features that are supported.
This is an industry standard implementation of IP SAQ so we can establish an IP set Tamo between an
NSX edge and a Cisco assaye for example or other major vendors are supported as well.
We can support multiple encryption methods such as trippled Yes.
Yes 128 and 256.
Now if you're studying for your VCP exam you're going to want to have those encryption methods memorize
broadcast traffic is not passed over the VPN and remember this is where 3pm.
So it's not like Lehre to broadcasts would go over anyways.
But if we have any Lerer three broadcast traffic that is explicitly not passed over the VPN we can have
a maximum of 10 sites and up 64 tunnels and it supports speeds up to 2 gigabits per second.
Now IP SEC VPN utilizes ISP and ICQ which is encapsulating secure payload and Internet key exchange.
These are protocols that are used by IP SEC to secure communication and we're going to use Eich version
one with the NSX edge.
And here we can see some of the encryption algorithms that are supported by Eich version 1 and what
it does is essentially it has these two phases and phase one.
One of the IP secte devices will initiate communications the initiating device will send a proposed
encryption method and the receiving device will either accept or reject that proposal.
If it accepts it both share a Diffie Hellman key and that will help to encrypt the exchange of what
we call a private shared key essentially password if everything goes well with this initial phase.
Then phase two begins which is the actual tunnel was stablish and once the tunnel is established that's
when Espey tunnel mode is used.
So yes the tunnel mode actually encapsulates the entire packet including IP headers within and yes header
this protects against replay attacks.
So when you review the IP sagt VPN is layer 3 VPN that's used to connect to networks on different address
ranges and NSX will be deployed at each site and they'll have a pure relationship will identify local
and remote networks at each location so that the edge knows how to handle that traffic.
The NSX implementation of IP stack is an industry standard implementation.
It's compatible with Cisco and other major vendors.
It doesn't pass layer 3 traffic over the VPN tunnel and it does not support dynamic routing.